In this video were gonna talk about what exactly React is, what it does, why youd wanna learn it and so on.

Now i realize many of you alreadyn know alot  of this stuff but p[lease realize this course was created so that anyone including absolute beginners can folow along so we will be going over the basics and fundamentals of React

So react is an extremley popular client side javascript library. It can be run on the server but  it is first and formost a client library. It was created and is still maintained by Facebook. Its priomary purpose ios to build user interfaces or uis. This could be a static website bnroken up into components but its usual;ly used for dynamic applications more so than a simple website.
React renders everything as a component. Where gonna go over components in depth but basically you can think of everything on the page as a component. So you may have a list of customers in your app that may be a component, eachy item in the list could be a component, the search bar at the top could be a component and all of these components can have their own properties and state which well talk about later. React is makes your apps very efficiant and organized. Its often refered to as the v in mvc. For those of you that dont know what MVC is it stands for model view controller and its an applicationstion design pattern. The controller handles things like routing, the model handles the data and database interactions and the view represents the template or view that the user sees in the browser. So react represents the view layer. It doesnt have models and controlers at least by default. Theres tools like Redux and FLux which ill talk about later than can be used for data structres and stuff like that


Now you will often hear people call react a framework over a library which is technoically what it is and personally i DONT SEE ANYTHING REALLY WRONG WITH THAT Because it does alot of the things that a framework does, its also often compared to actual frameworks like angular, vue, ember and so on. Many developers make a choice to use Anggular, vue, react or another framework all for the same thing, so to me, React is more of a framework than a library like jquery or lodash which is just a random set of tools.
Now one big difference between react and lets say angular is that angular is much heavier and thats because it inclides more. Ity has its own router, http module, react is very light and does not have that stuff but theres tools that we can install to give it that functionality. For example the react router. Or axios for making http requests. This stuff mixed with react gives it all of the ability that Angular has. So this is why even though iot is a library its often refered to and compared to a framework

So why learn react? why not just vanilla javascript with html and css? Well to build some of the applications that are fairly easy to builld in react in just vanilla javascript would literally be about 100x more difficult and would be 100x more code. Even a simple crud app that makes requests to an api. THis is much harder in vanilla javascript and it would be completley unorganized. Just a set of random functions. React puts everything into encapsulated components with their own proerties. So it completley organizes your UI and your application.
This also makes it very reusable. We can create a component and stick it anywhere and we canb even reuse them accross projects and in different applications
React is very scalable and efficient. If you decide you want to add products to your application, you can simply create a products component along with some other nexted compoennts and add your state, data etc.
When it comes to why choose react over other frameworks, I would say the biggest pro would be because its not just very powerrful but its very light. I have comment or opinion of what framework is better than another. I love frameworks like angular and vue.js as well and they all have strengths and weaknesses.
I will say that right now it seems React is in the  lead in the professional world. Especially for startups and new companies. Angul.ar seems to be really popular on the enterprice level but React is huge in smaller companies whie are much more of. So learnig react can land you a pretty good job



JSX
Alright in this section were gonna touch a littl bit on JSX which well be using to create our html in React. So JSX stands for javascript snytax extension and its a preprocessor step that essentially lets us write or embed html in our javascript. We can also disply dynamic content or vaqriable inside JSX. Itlooks very similar to a template language but has the full power of Javascript. It gets compoiled into regular javascript. Infact you dont need to use JSX with React but it makes things much much easier. Im gonna show you what compiled JSX looks like in a minute using an online tool that will convert it for us, but before that lets look at an example of a react component with jsx

So as you can see everything in this return looks just like html with a few differences. We have a div and inside that div we have a heading a paragraph and a list. Now you may notice this h1 has a className of heading not a class which is what youll usually see in html. JSX doesnt use class as an attriubute, yoiu instead need to use classname. for is another attribnute that you cant use, instead you uyse htmlfor. JSX can take dynaic values, right here were inserting some component properties which ill get to later, bnut anything that is dynamic will be surrounded in curly braces. If youve worked with angular it may look similar to string interpolation except angular uses double curly braces. You can also place jsx in conditionals and loops and any other javascript control structure.



